
h1. What should dia.js be?

A simple, elegant diagram editor implemented in Javascript, using the HTML5
 canvas tag or SVG (I haven't made up my mind yet..).

Why call it dia.js? I came across Gnome's Dia project one day, and it's
 simplicity and usability baffled me. I want to make my javascript version just
 as baffling. (I'm not making an exact replica -- Dia just inspired me.)

h2. Key points

# Keyboard shortcuts
# Toolbar / modes to the left just like in dia (and other software..)
# Diagram-type-specific toolbar below it -- e.g. choose between Flowchart / UML
# Plugins possible -- for example a plugin to support logic gate emulation
   similar to (but simpler than) HADES

h2. UI

Buttons for modes and drawing shapes to the left, keyboard shortcuts for faster
 editing but not necessary.

Modes for moving objects around and sizing etc; moving yourself around; zooming;
 editing text; drawing lines.

All modes revert to default mode if you press [esc] (or twice to first lose
 focus in current mode, then revert to default mode).

h3. Modes

* Default (arrow), shortcut: <space> -- click to focus, drag, resize, [esc], etc.. (double click text -> Text Mode)
* [H]and -- (click'n'drag)* -- [esc] -> Default Mode
* [Z]oom -- (click'n'drag-horizontally)* -- [esc] -> Default Mode
* [T]ext -- click to focus, write, [esc] to lose focus, etc.., [esc] -> Default Mode
* Draw line modes: -- click, click, click, click (not hold-release..)
** [L]ine -- simple straight line
** [C]urve -- bezier curve

h3. Drawing shapes

* ([R]ectangle || click on rectangle) + click to place
* ([E]llipse || click on ellipse) + click to place
* click on shape + click to place

